FWE Fundamentals (#10210)
flutter/website: src/get-started/fwe/fundamentals.md

The following tutorial is a gentle introduction in building UIs with Flutter. It
starts with a 'hello world' app, and walks you through building a simple
shopping list application. If you're exploring Flutter for the first time, it's
the perfect place to begin.

<i class="material-symbols" aria-hidden="true">flutter_dash</i>
Tutorial: [Building user interfaces with Flutter][]

## Dart

Flutter applications are built in [Dart][], a language that will look familiar
to anyone who's written Java, Javascript, or any other C-like language. The first
resource listed here is a tutorial about writing Dart code.  

{{site.alert.note}}
  Installing Flutter also installs Dart,
  so you don't need to install Dart separately.
{{site.alert.end}}

<i class="material-symbols" aria-hidden="true">flutter_dash</i>
Tutorial: [Get started with Dart: Write command-line apps][]

If you're interested in why Flutter chose Dart, 
you can read about it in the resource linked below. 
The other link has more resources for learning Dart.

* [Why did Flutter choose to use Dart?][]
* [Bootstrap into Dart][]

## Anatomy of a widget

In regard to Flutter, you'll often hear "everything is a widget". This isn't

> exactly true, but it is safe to say that "_almost_ everything is a widget".

Reviewer: Hmmm.  Are there other opinions on this? I can go either way.

---
title: Flutter fundamentals
description: Learn the basic building blocks of Flutter.
prev:
  title: Learn more
  permalink: /get-started/learn-more
next:
  title: Layouts
  permalink: /get-started/fwe/layout
---

Welcome to Flutter! On this page, there are a few videos, articles and a short

> tutorial that introduce many of the foundational concepts Flutter developers use
> on a daily basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tutorial that introduce many of the foundational concepts used by 
Flutter developers on a daily basis.
```

In regard to Flutter, you'll often hear "everything is a widget". This isn't
exactly true, but it is safe to say that "_almost_ everything is a widget".
Widgets are the UI building blocks that are combined to create a fully
functional application.

In the first tutorial, [Building user interfaces with Flutter][], you saw some
built in widgets, and created some custom widgets. The following videos expand
on what you learned by explaining in detail the two types of widgets that you
use the most in Flutter: stateless widgets and stateful widgets.

* [Flutter widgets 101 episode 1: Stateless widgets][]
* [Flutter widgets 101 episode 2: Stateful widgets][]

## Important widgets to know

The Flutter SDK includes many built-in widgets, from the smallest pieces of UI,
like `Text`, to layout widgets and widgets that style your application. The
following widgets are the most important to be aware of as you move onto the
next lesson in the learning pathway.

* [Container][]
* [Text][]
* [Scaffold][]
* [AppBar][]
* [Row][] and [Column][]
* [Elevated Button][]
* [Image][]
* [Icon][]

## Next: Layouts

This page was meant to be an introduction to foundational Flutter concepts, like

> widgets, and to help you get familiar with reading Flutter and Dart code. It's

Reviewer: One of my personal pet peeves is the overuse of "get", when there are typically more precise words to use.

```suggestion
widgets, and helps you become familiar with reading Flutter and Dart code. It's
```

> okay if you don't feel clear on every topic you encountered, as every page after
> this is a deep-dive on specific topics. In the next section, you'll start
> building more interesting UIs by creating more complex layouts in Flutter.

Reviewer: Why is this written in past tense, as if they've already reviewed this stuff? Also, this section recommends the same tutorial as the previous section? I'm a bit confused here. (And I can't see the auto-generated website for some reason...)

```suggestion
okay if you don't feel clear on every topic you encounter, as every page listed
provides a deep-dive into a specific topic. Next, you'll start
building more interesting UIs by composing Flutter widgets to create
a more complex layout.
```

[Building user interfaces with Flutter]:{{site.url}}/ui

[Dart]: {{site.dart-site}}

> [Why did Flutter choose to use Dart?]: {{site.url}/resources/faq#why-did-flutter-choose-to-use-dart
> 
> [Get started with Dart: Write command-line apps]: {{site.dart-site}}/tutorials/server/cmdline
> 
> [Bootstrap into Dart]: {{site.url}}/resources/bootstrap-into-dart

Reviewer: Do you really need to address why Flutter chose Dart here? This seems more like "If you are interested in additional reading..." sort of topic.

```suggestion
[Why did Flutter choose to use Dart?]: {{site.url}/resources/faq#why-did-flutter-choose-to-use-dart
[Get started with Dart: Write command-line apps]: {{site.dart-site}}/tutorials/server/cmdline
[Bootstrap into Dart]: {{site.url}}/resources/bootstrap-into-dart
```

[Flutter widgets 101 episode 1: Stateless widgets]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wE7khGHVkYY

[Flutter widgets 101 episode 2: Stateful widgets]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AqCMFXEmf3w

> [Container]: {{api}}/flutter/widgets/Container-class.html
> 
> [Text]: {{api}}/flutter/widgets/Text-class.html
> 
> [Scaffold]: {{api}}/flutter/material/Scaffold-class.html
> 
> [AppBar]: {{api}}/flutter/material/AppBar-class.html
> 
> [Row]: {{api}}/flutter/widgets/Row-class.html
> 
> [Column]: {{api}}/flutter/widgets/Column-class.html
> 
> [Elevated Button]: {{api}}/flutter/material/ElevatedButton-class.html
> 
> [Image]: {{api}}/flutter/widgets/Image-class.html
> 
> [Icon]: {{api}}/flutter/widgets/Icon-class.html

Reviewer: This might be why the CI build is breaking. It's "site.api", not "api". Also we try to list the links in alphabetical order and without empty lines separating them.

```suggestion
[`AppBar`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/AppBar-class.html
[`Column`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Column-class.html
[`Container`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Container-class.html
[`ElevatedButton`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/ElevatedButton-class.html
[`Icon`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Icon-class.html
[`Image`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Image-class.html
[`Row`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Row-class.html
[`Scaffold`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/Scaffold-class.html
[`Text`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Text-class.html
```
